# Wind
GreatFree as a Generic &amp; Self-Contained Distributed Programming Paradigm for Internet-Oriented Computing Environment


The World First Generic & Self-Contained Distributed Programming Paradigm
The World First Generic & Self-Contained Distributed Programming Paradigm

Video classes (Chinese): https://bit.ly/38pvojZ

Video classes (English): https://bit.ly/39opE9L

(All of the videos are still being updated. The English classes miss more topics. I am uploading the version now. 05/22/2020, Bing Li)

GreatFree is a generic programming paradigm for the Internet-oriented computing environment. Because of the complexity of the particular circumstance, three technologies, including the Distributed Primitives (DP), the Asynchronous Messaging on the Thread Level (AMTL) and the Steady Patterns for Rich Application (SPRA) programming interfaces, are proposed to ensure GreatFree to be generic and rapid. The DP is made up with the Primitive Distributed Application (PDA) programming interfaces as well as the corresponding Primitive Distributed code-level design Patterns (PDP). When programming with GreatFree, any distributed components and systems are originated from the DP. The AMTL provides developers with the asynchronous message-passing threading to implement fine-grained high-quality distributed concurrent algorithms. SPRA unveils that the code of heterogeneous distributed systems is constructed with the homogeneous code-level design patterns. The discovery not only speeds up the development of distributed systems but also establishes the basis of the first generic distributed programming language for the Internet-oriented computing environment upon GreatFree.

The DP answers the question what the most fundamental components look like exactly when programming distributed systems. As one of the foundations of GreatFree, the DP is identical to the proper abstraction of distributed techniques for distributed systems development. Such an abstraction shapes GreatFree to become a full coverage and rapid distributed development technique in the sense that it not only hides tedious details but also exposes essential elements. The DP consists of two portions of programming components, i.e., the PDA and the PDP. The PDA supports a couple of rudimentary distributed functions and the PDP provides the stable structures to assemble the PDA into steady code.

The PDA represents the mandatory distributed computing resources and mechanisms to construct any distributed systems. If any elements of the PDA are invisible, it affects all of programming techniques, including GreatFree, to adapt to various cases. On the other hand, if any of the ones encapsulated by the PDA are exposed, it raises the programming efforts obviously. The PDA contains two categories of APIs, i.e., the distributed modeling and the distributed dispatching. The distributed modeling specifies the APIs that transform a standalone computing device to the interactive one, i.e., a single physical distributed node, in a distributed computing environment. The distributed dispatching is the scaling-up concurrent APIs that leverage computing resources from the distributed node efficiently and effectively. In brief, the distributed modeling supplies distributed computing resources and the distributed dispatching is the mechanism to exploit those resources.

Programming with the PDA only, it is sufficient and necessary to construct the simplest one, the Two-Node lightweight messaging Client/Server (TNCS) distributed system. More important, the self-contained derivation is the most distinguished character of the DP. It is convenient to program with the DP further only to create various Advanced Distributed APIs (ADA), distributed frameworks and distributed systems. Usually, two categories of ADA, i.e., the distributed clustering and the distributed caching, are required to construct complicated systems. The distributed clustering performs scaling-out concurrency to enlarge the scale of distributed systems and the distributed caching retains vast volume data and keeps high performance to guarantee high scalability. The DP is sufficient and necessary for the rich derivation of those high-level programming components to accommodate to the complexity of distributed computing environments, especially the Internet-oriented one. In brief, the DP is critical for GreatFree to be a generic distributed programming technique in terms of the primitive distributed computing resources as well as the fundamental distributed computing mechanisms.

The AMTL is a distributed threading technique upon the asynchronous message-passing [] methodology. Different from most concurrent programming paradigms [], the threads are managed and visible to developers in the AMTL. Because of the complexity of the Internet-oriented computing environment, it is impossible to predefine an omni-potent concurrency instrument, which is capable of not only concealing threads for rapid programming but also adapting to diverse cases. It is required to allow developers to implement a specific algorithm to create, monitor, reuse and collect threads. Thus, programming visible threads is necessary for a generic distributed programming paradigm. In addition, the AMTL is different from the visible threading based on memory-sharing in traditional programming languages []. In the AMTL, threading is evolved to be message-passing and managed to ease concurrency programming as well as adapt to sophisticated distributed computing environments. Using the AMTL, developers are able to handle any number of remote threads residing on infinite distributed nodes conveniently to process intricate distributed tasks. As a novel distributed concurrency technique, the AMTL is another crucial foundation of GreatFree to become a generic distributed programming paradigm.

The SPRA is a phenomenon existing natively in code rather than a contrived technique. In accordance with the large amount of distributed programming experiences in various environments, it discovers that the code of heterogeneous distributed systems follows the homogeneous code-level design patterns, i.e., the PDP. Although it is necessary to derive diverse ADAs to raise the efficiency of programming complicated distributed systems, the types of code-level design patterns do not increase with the new proposed APIs. Only the PDP is sufficient to adapt to any scenarios since the patterns for ADA are the straightforward aggregations of the PDP and no particular ones need to be invented for ADA. Thus, when programming with ADA, the same code structures are reusable for distinct distributed systems. The phenomenon reveals the truth that the code structures are independent of the natures of distributed systems even though there are a variety of mutations in the Internet-oriented computing environment. The discovery definitely speeds up distributed systems development. Furthermore, it is feasible to generate the code upon domain-specific descriptions automatically following the patterns. In this way, it is practical to propose a new high-level programming language that encapsulates the current solution of GreatFree. The same as GreatFree, the language is generic for the Internet-oriented computing environment as well. In short, the SPRA is the third technical foundation as it discloses the code structure principle for distributed programming.

It is different for application developers and system developers to program with GreatFree. Application developers always keep on modeling upper level applications only on one particular distributed framework, which is implemented with the DP as well as the ADA, without worrying about any distributed APIs and patterns of GreatFree. In contrast, system developers aim to implement new ADAs and new distributed frameworks such that it is required for them to program with the PDA, existing ADAs or distributed frameworks.

In summary, compared with any other distributed programming paradigms [], GreatFree is distinct in the three aspects, i.e., the DP, the AMTL and the SPRA. It proposes appropriate programming components that conceal tedious low-level programming components as well as expose mandatory ones to speed up distributed systems development. More important, besides lowering implementation efforts, the programming components of GreatFree are unique since they still allow developers to apply for distributed knowledge sufficiently to adapt to all kinds of distributed issues without the tradeoff of losing the control of indispensable distributed computing resources. All of the existing paradigms cannot achieve the goal since their primitives reside in either a low level that programs toughly or a high level that hides essential distributed computing resources.

The current version of GreatFree is a distributed programming environment based on the three foundations rather than a new programming language. Although it is imperfect for that, the present solution has already become a novel distributed programming paradigm to raise the efficiency and guarantee the adaptability. It proves that GreatFree is an attainable technology to underpin the first generic distributed programming language for the Internet-oriented computing environment.
